# ubms version 1.1.0

## R CMD check results

Existing notes/warnings for CRAN checks:

WARN for r-devel-windows-x86_64-new-TK: 

* Found the following Makefile(s) with CR or CRLF line endings:
    src/Makevars

I have confirmed numerous times and in multiple ways (e.g. with dos2unix) that the Makevars file in the submitted source package has LF line endings.
I do not get this warning when I build on my own Windows or Linux systems, or on any other platform. Thus I believe this warning can be ignored, but would appreciate any guidance otherwise.

NOTE for r-devel-windows-x86_64-new-TK: 

* Found the following sources/headers with CR or CRLF line endings:
     src/RcppExports.cpp
     ... (a few other .cc files)

The source/header files reported to have CRLF line endings are not in the source package and are auto-generated by rstantools at build time, possibly in a platform-specific way that results in CRLF line endings only when built on Windows. Because this NOTE does not appear on Linux or Mac builds I think it can be safely ignored.

NOTES for all versions:

* Result: NOTE
    GNU make is a SystemRequirements. 

* Check: installed package size
  Result: NOTE
     installed size is 46.7Mb

These NOTES I believe are unavoidable for this package.

## Test environments

* Local: Ubuntu 18.04 (R-release), Windows (R-release)
* Github actions CI: Ubuntu 20.04 R-release, Ubuntu 20.04 R-devel, 
  Ubuntu 20.04 R-oldrel, Windows R-release, MacOS R-release

# Changes in version 1.0.2

This release hopefully fixes all outstanding issues in CRAN checks

* Fixed 1 overly sensitive test that failed on Solaris
* Fixed use of unsigned int in C++ code that was causing clang-UBSAN errors
* Fix NOTE about plot method not in NAMESPACE on R-oldrel
* Fixed two tests so they check if object is "matrix" instead of "array" (failed on R-oldrel)
* Fixed test that wrongly assumed stringsAsFactors=FALSE (failed on R-oldrel)

## Test environments

* Local: Ubuntu 18.04 (R-release, R-devel with UBSAN), Windows (R-release)
* Github actions CI: Ubuntu 20.04 R-release, Ubuntu 20.04 R-devel, 
  Ubuntu 20.04 R-oldrel, Windows R-release, MacOS R-release

## R CMD check results (R-devel on Ubuntu 18.04)

There were no ERRORs or WARNINGs. 

There were 2 NOTEs:

* checking installed package size ... NOTE
  installed size is 63.0Mb
  sub-directories of 1Mb or more:
    R      1.4Mb
    libs  60.6Mb

As per the guidelines for developing R packages that interface with Stan (https://mc-stan.org/rstantools/articles/developer-guidelines.html), all Stan models I have developed for this package are pre-compiled when the package is built. This allows the models to be run on Mac/Windows without a C++ compiler available and speeds up model runtime at the cost of increasing installed package size. I have followed suggested best practices to combine my models into as few Stan model files as possible to speed up compilation and minimize size.

* checking for GNU extensions in Makefiles ... NOTE
  GNU make is a SystemRequirements.

I believe GNU make is required to use Rcpp and compiled Stan code.
